.\" Manpage for ujson-verify
.\" Contact dan@ultramarin.se to correct errors or types.
.TH ujson-cmp 1 "" "" "User Commands"


.SH NAME
ujson-cmp \- Compare two JSON documents


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ujson-cmp
[OPTIONS...] [FILE_1] [FILE_2]


.SH DESCRIPTION
ujson-cmp parses two JSON documents and compares the instances for equality. If the JSON instances are equal, ujson-cmp exits with code 0. If they are not equal, or if a parsing error occurs, ujson-cmp exits with code 1.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -r, --relax
Parse JSON documents in relaxed mode.
.TP
.B -q, --quiet
Silent mode, don't write anything to standard output.
.TP
.B -v, --version
Print version and exit.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Print help and exit.


.SH NOTES
By default JSON documents are parsed using the official JSON syntax. But libujson also support a more relaxed format.
.PP
The following is allowed in JSON documents when relaxed format is used:

.nf
- C-style comments.
- String values can be split up into more than one string separated by whitespace or comments.
- Object definitions are allowed to end with a separator(,).
- Array items are allowed to end with a separator(,).
- In object definitions, a member name can be an identifier instead of a string.
  An identifier is a name with the following format: [_a-zA-Z][_a-zA-Z0-9]*
  Exceptions are: true, false, and null (case insensitive).
  Those names are reserved and are not allowed to be used as identifiers (i.e. without enclosing double quotes).

.PP
Example of a JSON document that is allowed in relaxed mode:

.EX
{
    /*
     * An invalid JSON syntax in strict mode, but allowed in relaxed mode.
     */
    name: "relaxed document",
    value: 42,
    desc: "Some text here",
    "normal_member_name": "Another string",

    // The following object member name must be enclosed by double quotes
    "null": 0,

    long_string: "This is a string value on " // This can be used to
                 "more than one line that, "  // make it more readable.
                 "when parsed, will be one "
                 "long string value.",

    // Note that the last array item ends with a separator
    list_of_values: [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,],

    // Also, the last object member can end with a separator
    last_member: true,
}
.EE

.SH SEE ALSO
ujson-print(1) ujson-get(1) ujson-verify(1) ujson-patch(1)


.SH AUTHOR
Dan Arrhenius (dan@ultramarin.se)
