.\" Manpage for ujson-verify
.\" Contact dan@ultramarin.se to correct errors or types.
.TH ujson-get 1 "" "" "User Commands"


.SH NAME
ujson-get \- Print a specific value from a JSON document to standard output


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ujson-get
[OPTIONS] [FILE] [LOCATION]


.SH DESCRIPTION
ujson-get prints a specific value in a JSON document. If the JSON document is correct and the value specified in LOCATION is found, ujson-get prints the value and exits with code 0.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -c, --compact
If the JSON value is an object or an array, print it without whitespace.
.TP
.B -t, --type=TYPE
Require the value to be of a specific type. TYPE is one of the following: boolean, number, string, null, object, or array. If the value is of a different type, exit with code 1.
.TP
.B -r, --relaxed
Parse the JSON document in relaxed mode.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Print help and exit.


.SH LOCATION
A
.B LOCATION
is specified in the following way:
.nf
- An single dot "." prints the whole JSON instance.
- A name is used to access an object property with the that name.
- To accesses nested object properties, separate the property names with a dot "."
- For arrays, use [n] to access the n'th array item. (Example: root_obj.some_array[4]).
- To print the whole array, omit the [n]. (Example: root_obj.some_array).
- Object member names are assumed to be JSON escaped where needed.


.SH NOTES
Since dots "." and left brackets "[" are used to find specific object members and/or array items,
they can't be used directly in member names in a
.B LOCATION.
To access object members with a "." or "[" in the name, escape the dot as \\u002e and left bracket as \\u005b.


.SH SEE ALSO
ujson-verify(1) ujson-cmp(1) ujson-print(1) ujson-merge(1)


.SH AUTHOR
Dan Arrhenius (dan@ultramarin.se)
